all right who knows what this is about
this deck stuff one person to kind of
kind of some kind of all right this
let's talk about smart file importing so
far the project that's been named X that
kind of starts stands for data importing
and exporting the data exporting there's
a whole bike shed thing of like talking
about the name since we chose that a lot
number of people have brought up that
hey there's a lot of things called Dax
so maybe this shouldn't be callbacks you
can weigh in on that white shed I don't
want to think about it there's a thing
called multi Dax that I saw and that's
pretty cool yeah the this thing has a
you can go and read this back here
you search for it and it will be there
and so there's a kind of rough speck
here that talks about what layouts are
and with splitters are we're gonna talk
about that in a moment and then talks
about the kind of architecture of what
we're talking about and how to plug it
into things it's very very basic and
this has been you know part of the IP
fence goal for a long time and the
benefits are truly massive for all you
for a lot of use cases for any of us we
just hadn't didn't have time to work on
this haven't had done working this for
quite a while there are other things to
a priority but it's really time to to
revisit this this is as I hope you
convinced me over the next you know 10
minutes that there's a lot of really
strong promise to this and that if we
prioritize this for the next you know
quarter two quarters or so a lot of
things will get faster and better and a
bunch of open use cases are gonna open
up so we'll kind of dive into that but
let's you know start more basic than
that so what you add this is a imagine
adding some some stuff to ipfs you get a
bunch of hashes and you know if you're
doing normal ipfs add this is you know
it's good FS and you're adding a bunch
of so there's like the lower level IP LD
hash link graph and then on top of that
we're modeling a UNIX file UNIX like a
familiar file system we'll hope to
actually get POSIX and planes someday
the or maybe not fully possible
complying but at least getting
permissions in right the point here is
the file system stuff if you haven't
gotten a chance to dive into this kind
of stuff the IP LD work came out of
really thinking about a lower level
primitive than files
turns out files wasn't the right thing
to base all this on and so all the
appeal day work has been trying to take
a project in flight and then like rebase
it on top of a new better heart because
really thinking about structured data at
a lower layer layer makes a lot more
sense and you can easily turn that into
files and going the other way around is
quite clunky I think about API is in the
world of you know web 2.0 world is so
it's all structured data not you're not
moving around a bunch of files I mean
yes you are but like not your logic so a
lot of the next stuff is file specific
but it does have it does present a lot
of opportunities for other kinds of data
and so the goal is to maybe motivate it
with files and maybe nail that and then
think about other kinds of data
structures so in a normal UNIX file
system we have you know directories and
files you know directories or diagnose
files or doc nodes and you know we take
a big file and chunk it up into a bunch
of pieces so you know this is a graph of
this directory I think not yeah I think
it is and you can see here a bunch of
things right like you can see that
directory a set object and you know it's
pointing to some some objects and right
there there's a file that happens to be
happens to be big enough to point to
four other sub logs right so big file is
getting chunked into smaller pieces if
you got a really big file this would go
on now how do you do that this is a
standard file systems technique how you
choose to chunk a file and lay it out
has vast implications for the
performance of your system and vast
implications for the use cases so well
gets inside a moment when you start
talking about layouts but the structure
of the graph is what we mean by a layout
so when we take a file and import it and
the graph that we construct out of that
will have some shape in that shape we
declare it we call that the layout there
are a bunch of different things you
could have a balanced tree but that
might have a problem what would what
sounds like a problem if you have like a
normal standard balanced tree can what
would happen if you start trying to play
a video and you have you know like the
root node in the CID and you try to play
a video well what would a what would
happen
so it sounds like it's not gonna be
fastened to fly time to first byte
inspected because if you have a really
nice balance tree you're gonna you know
go and try to seek to the first bite and
you're gonna go down a bunch of levels
you find the first block and then start
streaming that in so actually having a
lopsided tree where you know the very
first node immediately points to data
that is way more efficient for normal
files this has been around in emphasis
not at defaults but at say if you pass
an AB - t trickle it does this for you
but other kinds of files might want
different layouts that you know nice
trickle structure makes sense for things
like video but it might there may be
something else that you might wanna do
so that's that's what layouts are about
and now the other stuff that goes into
this is starting to think about
potentially being able to deduplicate
data much in a much smarter way so think
for a moment of you have two files and
you know you change one segment in in
one of them and maybe you insert a
single character now in a normal like
naive sized chunk or thing then the rest
of the file is gonna be different right
is gonna chunk to a different different
set of hashes I'll show that in a moment
here so you know if you have so suppose
that you know you chunk a file and then
like you make a change and say like c3
or something you insert a single
character now when you go back and reach
UNK that on hash it now c3 c4 c5 6 6 to
7 all are gonna be different so that
sounds kind of dumb turns out that you
know we've known how to do better things
than than that there are techniques for
for figuring out just very simple ways
of getting deterministic chunking to
happen based on the content itself and
that those things so wrapping
fingerprinting and you know either 32
cyclic hash functions like forgot the
the wording but their specific kinds of
hash hash hash functions that when you
apply to a to a file start yielding
certain numbers and you can come up with
an algorithm to kind of choose chunks
such that if you if you were to insert
something to 2 C 3 maybe C 3 changes
maybe C 4 changes but the rest would be
put a large subset of the rest of the
file would be chunked in exactly the
same way so you get the same kind of
nice properties so this a lot of people
have been doing this for a long time
this is also a night BFS it's you know
you can pass a special chunker rap and
fingerprinting and it'll do this myth
about ipfs robin fingerprinting doesn't
help total myth and I'll show it it does
not help quite a bit it just creates
really small chunks which was slow for a
while but now with badgers it's fine you
can also choose not to do any chunking
at all and that's what get does now what
what would happen if you do no chunking
at all
yes what else would be true what happens
you have like a file that is a gigabit
gigabyte large and you change one
character yeah so don't do that right
since 2005 you know I'll be fast because
it doesn't one you should go back to the
back of the past turns out that this is
one of the reasons a lot of people have
trouble with getting really large
repositories is because of this like it
doesn't handle things like video and
like large assets really well at all
there's a possibility that if we get
this importer stuff to be really really
good it could someday make it make it
back into something like it there's
conversations about that so we do
someone's driving stuff now that's kind
of like a general purpose thing of
saying like just whatever data you throw
at me I'm gonna come up with some
algorithm to try and chunk it
intelligently rappin fingerprinting is
one version of this rsync does something
similar with adler 32 I think someone
does function they use there are other
things like what if we knew something
about the layout of the file so for
example let's see quite a bunch of
render files I'm gonna compress them
right I think yeah so if I just add that
you know that's not gonna be very nice
but I there's a special command in there
which i think is tar I think that that
would be I think soon so what that did
it's a very special case thing is that
it imported the tar ball smartly it
looked at the headers of the tar ball
and created specific objects for it
and I'll show you in the difference
between the two graphs so be look at
this one
okay stop there oh let's forgot to pass
it - no no that shouldn't work I guess
there's only one object it's so small
here let me create something much bigger
there we go
so this this shows me the underlying
it's a tool that I wrote I'll demo it
later it shows me the underlying graph
that ipfs generates and so we can
visualize that and so this is this is
like the the graph right so these are
like the underlying file blocks of the
tarball this is an intermediate node so
this is a balance tree right so this is
like the root the root node and so on so
it's not perfectly the hana story but
it's built that way if we were to add it
with a different thing like add this is
the Terkel thing we should do the same
[Music]
to refresh this then you get a different
shape and so what's going on here
well that's a lot of data blocks in the
first one really trying to optimize in
the first first few blocks so that's a
bunch of objects in the first one and
then the very bottom one it happens to
be an indirect block it might have more
indirect blocks I think like xt4 has
like four or something like there's
there's a whole bunch of research into
how what what layout might you want
optimized in certain kinds of file
system use cases but the the tar one and
so this is what's kind of cool about
this if we if we now visualize a tarp
tarp all version oh whoops yeah it's
somewhere up here right make sure you're
following along okay so what happened
here so this there's like a like a way
of adding the stuff such that the
tarball headers themselves are single IP
all the objects and so if we were to
like look at this thing if we like where
did cat band
yeah there we go so what's in there
that's you know some data is in there
this is this is the tarball header stuff
surprisingly large might be some some
other stuff there but that's just I feel
the stuff if I build it was smarter
which you know the goal is to get there
are some of the some way you would be
able to see transparently this this data
right there and you'll be able to see
like the structure within it and that's
that's the motivation for ability it's
like don't have to you know IFIF hasn't
should get smart enough to be able to
understand those internal data
structures but that's that's where the
tether is and the the actual data is
isn't here right so so the actual data
link if we were to follow that data then
that's the actual like data of that file
and and so why might this be useful does
anyone have ideas why why importing a
tarball this way might be useful
yep so one thing you might be able to do
is knowing that as a tarball
you could like seek into the tarball
into a specific file and just pull that
out right and so when you were like if
we've want to see this specific thing I
think I think we can actually do this
here let's let's try it out now I don't
think I've ever tried it but let's do it
so if we take this oh this might not
work because it's I think it's expecting
we can probably do it with this so so if
we get this out then we like walk into
this is the that's because this is using
the protobuf stuff nervously war stuff
if it was using the see more stuff we
could like traverses much nicer but the
point is you should be able to traverse
into that graph and pull out a specific
file so that's one thing the other thing
is what if you have ten tarballs all of
which we include the same file if you if
you chunk it with a normal standard way
and I profess is not understanding this
tar ball she's gonna chunk it it's on
standard way and maybe it'll get lucky
if you use driving fingerprinting and
align and maybe to duplicate stuff but
chances are it's not going to if you do
it with smart are importing then
immediately it will duplicate the st.
whenever there's a tarball that happens
to include the same file it'll do to
placate that exactly now where do you
know there's a lot of tar balls that
have the exact same contents releases
releases of what software package
managers right so think of an NPM or
after something like that how many
packages include the exact same code you
like all of the versions of your package
right like all of them right now an NPM
they're sitting like a whole different
art wall and and so like you know think
about decompressing sorry duplicate him
all of that that's not just useful in
storage it's useful in bandwidth if you
were using ipfs to
pull down the NPM stuff and you're
pulling down package X then you might
not need to pull down all of the tarball
everyone away NPM is so slow that's why
one of the reasons so that's very
promising but it needs like this smarter
importer stuff there's a bunch of stuff
to figure out there what other kind of
package manager includes a set of files
that are all very similar what other
kind of package package managers we have
so I guess like binaries might have
underlying like huge binary programs
some some package others have binaries
that are quite large their megabytes in
size but when you look at the internal
structure they have a lot of duplicated
stuff and you could duplicate that
intelligently you could duplicate Lipsy
out of most package managers like right
away maybe not because I think like the
linker might change the addresses but
there's some weddings to be made there
the other thing that it could massively
duplicate is things like Linux ISOs so
imagine if you ran the Ubuntu or Debian
you know ISO installer system and you
have like hundreds of ISOs and all of
these you know are targeting different
architectures and different versions and
whatnot and you have to like keep all of
these around and in reality that ISO
which is probably you know hundreds of
megabytes includes a bunch of file that
are the exactly the same version after
version after version after version and
so if you import it an ISO smartly you
could look into its internal file system
and they duplicate that intelligently so
then having another ISO would just be
the changes so that's the that's the the
promise of this kind of stuff and you
know there's a ton of things like this a
lot of files that because of how UNIX
and computing evolved we ended up using
just files and moving around files as
that as the native like Bob Dole of data
and turns out it usually is full of the
same stuff so let me give you an example
I make a lot of presentations that you
reuse the same images images are large
so you know if I had to go to get talks
so I have 8 gigs of keynote files and
this is just a bunch of ipfs talks and
if I I think let me see if I have it
still running reminisce - so what I did
here was I have a tool that allows me to
test the differences between certain
different repo types and the importer
that we're using and you know let's
check out the size of importing with a
normal sized chunker and that's seven
gigs they duplicated some stuff like
that's pretty random I'm kind of
surprised that must be like the exact
same files or something otherwise it
would be really difficult to get that
lucky but then let's look at rabbin two
gigs so I just imported a bunch and then
this is just like the night like the not
fully naive sized stuff this is like the
general-purpose rabbin fingerprinting
thing it just you know saved me
four gigs of stuff of just without
knowing anything about keno now imagine
if it knew something about keynote and
how it represents its own internal files
this could get chunked drastically
better right so this is this is like a
promise there's a whole bunch of
different kinds of files that that we
can learn how to how to chunk and so the
the goal of the project is to is to come
up sort of like this next thing is to
come up with like a like a general way
of attacking this problem because
there's a ton of different files out
there and you don't want to have to
implement special junkers for everything
but you want to structure a project such
that when somebody needs to create us in
one they can and then they can benchmark
that against you know doing the naive
thing or people can put research into
some of these like rolling hash function
and stuff and see if they can get that
to work even better and so the idea was
to to come up with like this structure
for
saying let's rip out all the file
importing stuff out of the core
implementations of IP us into a
different set of modules and have a a
set of programs and libraries that know
how to import files necessarily they
consume a file as an input and an output
and I appeal de Grasse and so then you
can think about what how to configure
that that is that chunker to tune how
that works and then ipfs would you know
import that as a library and and run it
locally maybe some other implementations
might actually call out to a different
program or something but that's then we
can make that pluggable so that people
can like file for across against that
and say hey you know I just came up with
a way to import keynote files and here
you go or hey came up with a way to do
ISOs here you go
and so that's that's how we can scale
this that's how we can and ideally we
would do it in one language as opposed
to having to do and watch different
languages but that gets into the whole
question about like what assembly and
like what's gonna be the winner but you
know for now like we could just follow
the same structure to what we do with
everything else which is implemented in
two languages and and see how it goes
and so we have the bate some of the
basics already we have this like layout
stuff we have some of the chunker's we
have like the tarball thing but we want
to do a lot cooler stuff I think the
ISOs thing is very promising
and I think getting it to work really
well for package managers is also really
promising so if we treat those as like
the short term use cases and go after
after them then we can potentially speed
up a ton of stuff earlier this morning
we're talking about potentially doing
this for JavaScript CD ends so if they
give up like a CDN with a huge bundle of
JavaScript in there like jQuery like you
know every version or whatever it's just
pretty big has the same stuff you could
intelligently chunk that like rip out
the modules that are the same or like a
bundle like a web pack bundle rip out
the modules are the same and like import
those that way so you don't have to like
bond all the same stuff all the time
right and so this is a there's a bunch
of interesting work here I think the
way in which we can reboot the project
is by forming and working group and so
the way to think about that is first
identify the use cases and the people
that might be interested in that and the
projects that might benefit from it and
then see you know whether we have
bandwidth to do that in the firm or we
know we keep putting it off on and
whatnot but this is going to benefit i
professor both both implementations it's
gonna benefit cluster because it's gonna
be able to more intelligently understand
the data that it's that is pulling in
there's a tool called just pack I've
never you ever seen it was an experiment
around data set distribution that
already has a way to like describe the
importers that you're using so that we
have a little description but so you can
always take the same file apply that
description and output the same graph so
that you know as importers change over
time they don't you can always return
the exact same in data package managers
ISOs containers so it turns out that a
docker container it's just a bunch of
tar balls smashed together right a lot
of the star walls often contain the same
stuff sometimes they're star balls
inside tar balls
so if you've ever played around with
container images for the like there's
just a bunch of tar balls inside and so
if you were importing them smartly then
you could duplicate a ton of this stuff
and then maybe you could shrink down
like the whole like container what
docker hub I think hit us could probably
shrink that drastically and then you
wouldn't have to pay tons of think of
like all of the bandwidth that people
are spending by just in sea I especially
like just downloading the same images
over and over and over again like the
same bytes or moving this is ridiculous
and and you know you can you can then
start and see how this could get even
crazier like once you start doing this
you can think of you know entire like OS
or or like you running a VM on top of
something like this or like being able
to understand like the internal data
structures of of you know you have like
a VM image so not just like an ISO but
like an image of a running computer and
then import that intelligently and then
like understand what this internal state
of it might be and like you know you
like the migration of Frosty's but all
of like the process migrations
like I don't have you ever seen some of
that work but it's you know a live
running system with a hypervisor and has
a VM running and then something happens
and you there's like an slightly older
snapshot of that VM and they want to
migrate that process somewhere else like
this is used a lot in cloud being able
to do that you know this kind of stuff
wouldn't even apply there and yeah we
talked about media and then you get into
like a very interesting one which is
once you have this all this trunking
importer stuff you could start putting
functions in there so imagine applying a
filter to an image or something and the
way you express the filter is not by
taking the raster image applying the
filter and then rendering and but taking
the original image and attaching a
filter to it in code and then shipping
back and the user runs up and so it's a
file it looks like a regular file but if
you can intelligently execute the code
before it comes out of ipfs to the user
then it would feel like a file exactly
the same way as everything else because
output the buy some time but it's stored
in a very different way underneath the
hood so you know that's are suggesting a
whole bunch of other things that we can
start doing can do compression that's
what you can do encryption and
decryption this way I had a little
random hack before where I have a
compressed file and have an eye peeled
the object that points to the compressed
file and points to a key and then I
mount that and a mount that and I see
the file
unencrypted and every time I write it it
writes encrypted into into IVFs so
that's that's where a lot of this can go
but it's there's some important
roadblocks to get there which is this
this you know how do we lately all this
stuff out and and so on so yeah I think
I'm gonna pause here because I think
we're already going into lunch and I'm
holding you back from food and they
don't want to do that so I'm gonna take
questions and then if you're interested
in in your looking more into this and
might want to join our working group on
this let me know and then I'll see about
whether or not we can form our working
group for this next quarter or the
quarter after
great any any questions that's right so
I do envision a set of sane defaults but
it is important that we always are able
to go back to exactly the same file and
this is where the ffs back stuff got
like it was pretty important to come up
with I know where we was called I think
is a format string I think so this
defines so this would be part of the Dex
project it would be like a string it's
just a string that defines what what
configuration options are involved so
that you can take the exact same file
and produce the exact same output every
time and then you know if you want to
upgrade from there like that's literally
totally sane and so then this could be
fed into so the activist add thing could
be enhanced to include you know you
could specify the string if you know
what it is right instead of it
specifying these other options that are
that are there but but I think over time
we could get to same defaults but
through benchmarking a lot of that it
should be you know rigorous benchmarks
that show hey when you do this videos
get better anybody else are there
questions yeah
so I think probably the biggest
roadblock there is more social than
anything I think it's just demonstrating
the stuff and then coming up with
something that seems palatable to the
gay community where they would get would
have to learn how to deal with files
that are chunk chunk internally and so
that would require thinking through
through that the internals aren't aren't
that complicated it's pretty pretty good
structure and so this is pretty
peaceable it's just a matter of thinking
through the impact of a bunch of the
tools that assume the file is always a
single file and I would imagine that a
lot of a lot of those tools would expect
that you would unpack unpacked like the
compress representation and to like this
like normal standard files they were
just kind of expect that to happen but
[Music]
yeah I think I think this would this
would be quite a bit a significant
effort but it would be I think it would
definitely be worth it to cover a whole
bunch of use cases where you suddenly
you should be able to use all of the
tooling that works with git versioning
and commits and so on and apply that to
versioning really large data right now
like you it's not easy to version really
large data it still sucks like people
have been working on this for many years
and it's still terrible and so a lot of
a tooling around git is really nice and
a lot of the stuff that people have
built in terms of github and and whole
bunch of other tools it's also really
nice it would be really great to be able
to reuse all of that with versioning for
large data but that becomes a question
of like how do we do it what is the
plural what what is like the plural
class really looked like to get that
says hey we're gonna add all the support
and I think the biggest part is
convincing that group that this is
worthwhile and that would just be with
like really hard facts of thing look at
all what these repos look at what what
get could now suddenly do yeah
yep
code is data right and data is code so I
think for those unfamiliar the IPL the
effort is it is diving deep into
computation so it turns out that a lot
of the wasting to into how to improve
the distribution is actually an
applications on top of it is to really
rethink how we mix computation and data
and so you can read there's a whole
bunch of notes here that talks through
use cases that talks through potential
things a bunch of different discussions
I think probably the most valuable thing
that we've gathered together here is
this awesome bibliography that you know
you can dive through there's a bunch of
like really great paper papers here and
a lot of this stuff is much more about
computation than than data and so I
don't know that'll you know all remain
on there I feel D that might yield the
different like pop out a different
project or something but uh but yes I
think a lot of it does become really
thinking through just how we represent
files in the first place why are we
storing just byte streams why aren't we
thinking about storing code instead and
so on and in terms of languages there's
been some some work on this there's a
set of issues actually it's funny
because I was writing an email about us
today to to somebody who is working on a
thing called calm Agora of blocks I
think or call blocks or something that
it talks about about doing exactly this
and so you know one example would be so
this stack stream thing is part of yep
profess explore a set of aspirations and
the idea was come up with a very simple
language that would combine other
objects and yield stuff so so
a normal file like two would concatenate
its children right so he would link a
file would like to link two sub files
and they would concatenate those plus
the its own internal data segment and
then you could like write a single
function that represents that and then
you could ship so this were the IP all
these stuff happen where we didn't want
to start writing that a special cases
into ipfs we didn't want to have to be
like oh this is this really cool idea
let's have this like code thing in a
different language and included along
with going BFS
it'd be really nice to have a VM here
like a Wes Emily VM and then point to
the code itself as I peel the objects
and then apply the function on top of
another thing so what this would look
like a file would be a function
invocation that you know it also points
to the code itself so it knows how how
to interpret itself and then it would
point to the data and then that's how
you know you you would then stream about
the file exactly so all of that so
there's something amazingly elegant and
powerful lurking there and we've been
we've been exploring those branches of
things and we found pretty good ways of
representing these things and I think
we're we're blocked is actually time I
think a number of us are just so spread
thin that we can't do all this
insulation all at once I think Stephen
for example is somebody who has already
figured that so a lot of this out and
just like wants to build it but then
like needs to maintain go I profess
write so well so I mean this is
definitely an open call to to help out
on the FLD team because and come to that
right after lunch we're gonna have
discussion about that if you want to
hear what I feel eat because there is a
lot of really valuable things that could
come out of this and so the importer
stuff is VIP OD parameters are there
enough to do the importer stuff without
thinking very much about that
and then late but at the same time we
can continue those explorations and then
yield something much more interesting
right so we kind of want to stage this
where we want to provide the
shorter-term benefit in terms of the
very simple kind of chunking and
splitting we can already do and then
later once we thinking about computable
files then that that opens up a whole
bunch of other possibilities and so yeah
I think there's a very interesting
bright future ahead for computing and
how we represent stuff it'll just well
we have to chart a path through all the
possibilities and then like start doing
some early as we get out but yeah
hopefully you know we can start reducing
the vast amounts of data out there
because in reality a lot of it is just
junk that's duplicated sorry duplicated
other questions or we can really release
you for for food if there is people
wanting to talk about this extensively
you can stay otherwise we'll call it
done and see you run thank you and yeah
if you're interested in the working
group either people here or if you're
watching this video in the future talk
to us